distinguished picked out as marks and
fell
very fast and the soldiers were crowded
together
in a huddle having or hearing no orders
and standing to be shot at until
two-thirds of them were killed
and then being seized with a panic the
whole
fled with precipitation the wagoners
took each horse out of its team
and scampered their example was
immediately followed by others
so that all the wagons provisions
artillery and stores
were left to the enemy the general being
wounded was brought off with difficulty
his secretary mr shirley was killed by
his side
and out of 86 officers 63 were killed or
wounded
and 714 men killed out of the eleven
hundred
these eleven hundred had been picked men
from the whole army
the rest had been left behind with
colonel dunbar who was to follow with
the heavier part of the stores
provisions and baggage the flyer is not
being pursued
arrived at dunbar's camp and the panic
they brought with them
instantly seized him and all his people
and though he had now
above one thousand men and the enemy
who had beaten braddock did not at most
exceed 400
indians and french together instead of
proceeding and
endeavoring to recover some of the lost
honor he ordered
all the stores ammunition etc to be
destroyed
that he might have more horses to assist
his flight towards the settlements
and less lumber to remove he was there
met
with requests from the governors of
virginia maryland and pennsylvania
that he should post his troops on the
frontier so as to
afford some protection to the
inhabitants but he continued his hasty
march through all the country
not thinking himself safe until he
arrived at philadelphia
where the inhabitants could protect him
this whole transaction gave
us americans the first suspicion that
our exalted ideas of the power of
british regulars
had not been well founded
begin footnote other accounts of this
expedition and defeat
may be found in fisk's washington and
his country
or lodges george washington volume 1
and footnote in the first march 2 from
their landing till they got beyond the
settlements
they had plundered and stripped the
inhabitants totally ruining some poor
families
besides insulting abusing and confining
the people if they remonstrated
this was enough to put us out of conceit
of such defenders if we had really
wanted any
how different was the conduct of our
french friends
in 1781 who during a march
through the most inhabited part of our
country
from rhode island to virginia near 700
miles
occasioned not the smallest complaint
for the loss of a pig
a chicken or even an apple captain orme
who was one of the general's aides to
camp and being grievously wounded
was brought off with him and continued
with him to his death
which happened in a few days told me
that he was totally silent
all the first day and at night only said
who would have thought it that he was
silent again the following day
saying only at last we shall better know
how to deal with them another time
and died in a few minutes after the
secretary's papers with all the
general's orders
instructions and correspondence falling
into the enemy's hands
they selected and translated into french
a number of articles
which they printed to prove the hostile
intentions of the british court
before the declaration of war among
these i saw some letters of the general
to the ministry speaking highly of the
great service i had rendered the army
and recommending me to their notice
david hume too who was some years after
secretary to lord hertford
then ministered to france and afterward
to general conway
when secretary of state told me he had
seen among the papers in that office
letters from braddock highly
recommending me but the expedition
having been unfortunate
my service it seems was not thought of
much value
for those recommendations were never of
any use to me
as to rewards for myself i asked only
one which was
that he would give orders to his
officers not to enlist any more of our
bought servants
and that he would discharge such as had
been already enlisted
this he readily granted and several were
accordingly returned to their masters
on my application dunbar when the
command
devolved on him was not so generous
he being at philadelphia on his retreat
or rather flight
i applied to him for the discharge of
the servants of three poor farmers in
lancaster county
that he had enlisted reminding him of
the late general's orders on that head
he promised me that if the masters would
come to him at trenton
where he should be in a few days on his
march to new york
he would there deliver their men to them
they accordingly were at the expense and
trouble
of going to trenton and there he refused
to perform his promise
to their great loss and disappointment
as soon as the loss of the wagons
and horses was generally known all the
owners came upon me for the valuation
which i
had given bond to pay the demands gave
me a great deal of trouble
by acquainting them that the money was
ready in the pay master's hands
but that orders for paying it must first
be obtained from general shirley
and my assuring them that i had applied
to that
general by letter but he being at a
distance
an answer could not soon be received and
they must have patience
all this was not sufficient to satisfy
and
some began to sue me general shirley at
length
relieved me from this terrible situation
by appointing commissioners to examine
the claims
and ordering payment they amounted to
near twenty thousand pound
which to pay would have ruined me before
we had the news of
this defeat the two doctors bond came to
me
with a subscription paper for raising
money to defray the expense of a grand
firework
which it was intended to exhibit at a
rejoicing
on receipt of the news of our taking
fort duquesne
i looked grave and said it would i
thought be time enough to prepare for
the rejoicing
when we knew we should have occasion to
rejoice
they seemed surprised that i did not
immediately comply with their approval
why the devil says one of them you
surely don't suppose that the fort will
not be taken
i don't know that it will not be taken
but i know that the events of war are
subject
to great uncertainty i gave them the
reasons
of my doubting the subscription was
dropped
and the projectors thereby missed the
mortification
they would have undergone if the
firework had been prepared
dr bond on some other occasion afterward
said that he did not like franklin's
forebodings
governor morris who had continually
worried the assembly with
message after message before the defeat
of braddock to beat them into the making
of acts
to raise money for the defense of the
province without taxing
among others the proprietary estates
and had rejected all their bills for not
having such
an exempting clause now redoubled his
attacks with more hope of success
the danger and necessity being greater
the assembly however continued firm
believing they had justice on their side
and that it would be giving up an
essential right if they suffered the
governor to amend their money bills
in one of the last indeed which was for
granting fifty thousand pounds
his proposed amendment was only of a
single word
the bill expressed that all estates real
and personal were to be taxed
those are the proprietaries not accepted
his amendment was for
not read only a small but very material
alteration
however when the news of this disaster
reached england
our friends there whom we had taken care
to furnish
with all the assembly's answers to the
governor's messages
raised a clamor against the
proprietaries for their meanness
and injustice in giving their governor
such instructions
some going so far as to say that by
obstructing
the defense of their province they
forfeited their right to it
they were intimidated by this and sent
orders to their
receiver general to add five thousand
pounds of their money
to whatever some might be given by the
assembly for such purpose
this being notified to the house was
accepted in lieu of their share
of a general tax and a new bill was
formed with an accepting
clause which passed accordingly but by
this act i was appointed one of the
commissioners for disposing of the money
sixty thousand pounds i had been active
in modeling the bill
and procuring its passage and had at the
same time drawn a bill
for establishing and disciplining a
volunteer militia
which i carried through the house
without much difficulty
as care was taken in it to leave the
quakers at their liberty
to promote the association necessary to
form the militia
i wrote a dialogue stating and
answering all the objections i could
think of for such a militia
which was printed and had as i thought
great effect
end of chapter 16.
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 17.
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank woodworth
pine chapter 17 franklin's defense of
the frontier
while the several companies in the city
and country were forming
and learning their exercise the governor
prevailed with me to take charge of our
northwestern frontier which was infested
by the enemy
and provide for the defense of the
inhabitants by raising troops
and building a line of forts i undertook
this military business
though i did not conceive myself well
qualified for it
he gave me a commission with full powers
and a parcel of blank commissions for
officers
to be given to whom i thought fit i had
but little difficulty in raising men
having soon 560 under my command
my son who had in the preceding war been
an officer in the army
raised against canada was my aide camp
and of great use to me the indians had
burned kanadanhoot
a village settled by the morovians and
massacred the inhabitants
but the place was thought a good
situation for one of the forts
in order to march thither i assembled
the companies at
bethlehem the chief establishment of
those people
i was surprised to find it in so good a
posture
of defense the destruction of gnadenhut
had made them
apprehend danger the principal buildings
were defended by a stockade
they had purchased a quantity of arms
and ammunition
from new york and had even placed
quantities of small paving stones
between the windows of their high stone
houses for their women to throw
down upon the heads of any indians that
should attempt to force into them
the armed brethren too kept watch and
relieved as methodically as in
any garrison town in conversation with
the bishop
springenberg i mentioned this my
surprise
for knowing they had obtained an act of
parliament exempting them from military
duties in the colonies
i had supposed they were conscientiously
scrupulous
of bearing arms he answered me that it
was not one of their established
principles
but that at the time of their obtaining
that act
it was thought to be a principle with
many of their people
on this occasion however they to their
surprise
found it adopted by but a few it seems
they were either deceived in themselves
or deceived the parliament
but common sense aided by present danger
will sometimes be too strong
for whimsical opinions it was the
beginning of january when we set out
upon the business of building forts
i sent one detachment toward the
menacing with
instructions to erect one for the
security of that upper part of the
country
and another to the lower part with
similar instructions
and i concluded to go myself with the
rest of my force
to gennadenhood where a fort was
thought more immediately necessary the
morovians procured me five wagons for
our tools
stores baggage etc just before we left
bethlehem
eleven farmers who had been driven from
their plantations
by the indians came to me requesting a
supply of firearms
that they might go back and fetch off
their cattle
i gave them each a gun with suitable
ammunition
we had not marched many miles before it
began to rain
and it continued raining all day there
were no
habitations on the road to shelter us
until we arrived near night
at the house of a german where and in
his barn
we were all huddled together as wet as
water could make us
it was well we were not attacked in our
march
for our arms were of the most ordinary
sort
and our men could not keep their gun
locks right
the indians are dexterous in
contrivances for that purpose
which we had not they met that day the
11 poor farmers above mentioned and
killed
10 of them the one who escaped informed
that his
and his companions guns would not go off
the priming being wet with the rain
begin a footnote
flintlock guns discharged by means of a
spark struck from flint and steel
into powder priming in an open pan
end footnote the next day being fair we
continued our march and arrived at the
desolate gunadin hut
there was a sawmill near round which
were left
several piles of boards with which we
soon hutted ourselves an
operation the more necessary at the
inclement season
as we had no tense our first work was to
bury more effectually the dead we found
there
who were half interred by the country
people the next morning our fort was
planned and marked out
the circumference measuring 454 feet
which would require as many palisades to
be made of trees
one with another of a foot diameter each
our axes of which we had
70 were immediately set to work to cut
down trees
and our men being dexterous in the use
of them great dispatch was made
seeing the trees fall so fast i had the
curiosity to look at my watch
when two men began to cut at a pine in
six minutes they had it upon the ground
and i found it of 14 inches diameter
each pine made three palisades of 18
feet long
pointed at one end while these were
prepared
our other men dug a trench all round of
three feet deep
in which the palisades were to be
planted and our wagons
the bodies taken off and the four and
hind wheels
separated by taking out the pin which
united the two parts of the perch
we had ten carriages with two horses
each
to bring the palisades from the woods to
the spot when they were set up our
carpenters
built a stage of boards all round within
about six feet high for the men to stand
on to fire
through the loopholes we had one swivel
gun
which we mounted on one of the angles
and fired it as
soon as fixed to let the indians know if
any were within hearing
that we had such pieces and thus our
fort
if such a magnificent name may be given
to so miserable a stockade
was finished in a week though it rained
so hard every other day that the men
could not work
this gave me occasion to observe that
when men are employed
they are best contented for on the days
they worked they were good-natured and
cheerful
and with the conscientiousness of having
done a good day's work
they spent the evening jolly but on
our idle days they were mutinous and
quarrelsome
finding fault with their pork the bread
etc
and in continual ill humor which put me
in mind of a sea captain
whose rule it was to keep his men
constantly at work
and when his mate once told him they had
done everything and there was nothing
further to employ them about
oh says he make them scour the anchor
this kind of fort however contemptible
is a sufficient defense against
indians who have no cannon finding
ourselves now posted securely
and having a place to retreat to on
occasion
we ventured out in parties to scour the
adjacent country
we met with no indians but we found
places on the neighboring hills
where they had lane to watch our
proceedings there was
an art in their contrivance of those
places that seemed
worth mentioning it's being winter a
fire was necessary for them
but a common fire on the surface of the
ground would by its light have
discovered their positions at a distance
they had therefore dug holes in the
ground around three feet diameter
and somewhat deeper we saw where they
had with their hatches cut
off the charcoal from the sides of burnt
logs
lying in the woods with these coals they
made small fires in the bottoms of the
holes
and we observed among the weeds and
grass the prince of their bodies
made by their laying all around with
their legs hanging down
in the holes to keep their feet warm
which
with them is an essential point this
kind of fire so managed could not
discover them
either by its light flame sparks or even
smoke
it appeared that their number was not
great and it seems they saw we were too
many
to be attacked by them with prospect of
advantage
we had for our chaplain as ella's
presbyterian minister
mr beatty who complained to me that the
men
did not generally attend his prayers and
exhortations
when they enlisted they were promised
besides pay and provisions
a gill of roma day which was punctually
served out
to them half in the morning and the
other half in the evening
and i observed they were punctual in
attending to receive it
upon which i said to mr beatty it is
perhaps below the dignity of your
profession to act as steward of the rum
but if you were to deal it out and only
just after prayers
you would have them all about you he
liked the thought
undertook the office and with the help
of a few hands to measure out the liquor
executed it to satisfaction and never
were prayers more generally
and more punctually attended so that i
thought this method preferable
to the punishment inflicted by some
military laws
for non-attendance on divine service i
had hardly finished this business
and got my fort well stored with
provisions when i received the letter
from the governor
acquainting me that he had called the
assembly and wished my attendance there
if the posture of affairs on the
frontier was such that my remaining
there was no longer necessary
my friends too of the assembly pressing
me by their letters to be
if possible at the meeting and my three
intended forts now being completed with
the inhabitants
contented to remain on their farms under
that protection
i resolved to return the more willingly
as a new england officer
colonel chapman experienced in indian
war
being on visit to our establishment
consented
to accept the command i gave him a
commission and
parading the garrison had it read before
them
and introduced him to them as an officer
who
by his skill and military affairs was
much more fit to command
them than myself and giving them a
little exhortation
drew my leave i was escorted as far as
bethlehem
where i rested a few days to recover
from the fatigue i had undergone
the first night being in a good bed i
could hardly sleep
it was so different from my hard
lodgings on the floor
of our hot at ganagan hoot wrapped only
in a blanket or two while at bethlehem i
inquired a little into the practice of
the morovians some of them had
accompanied me
and all were very kind to me i found
they worked for a common stock
ate a common tables and slept in common
dormitories
great numbers together in the
dormitories i observed loopholes at
certain distances
all along just under the ceiling which i
thought judiciously placed
for change of air i was at their church
where i was entertained with good music
the organs being accompanied with
violins hot boys
flutes clarinets etc i understood that
their sermons were not usually preached
to mixed congregations of men women and
children as
is our common practice but that they
assembled sometimes the married men
and other times their wives then the
young men
the young women and the little children
each division by itself
the sermon i heard was to the latter who
came in
and were placed in rows on benches the
boys under the conduct of a young man
their tutor
and the girls conducted by a young woman
the discourse
seemed well adapted to their capacities
and was delivered
in a pleasing familiar manner coaxing
them as it were
to be good they behaved very orderly but
looked pale and unhealthy
which made me suspect they were kept too
much within doors
and not allowed sufficient exercise i
inquired concerning the morovian
marriages whether the report was true
that they were by lot i was told that
lots were used only in particular cases
that generally when a young man found
himself disposed to marry
he informed the elders of his class who
consulted the elder
ladies that governed the young women as
these elders of the different sexes were
well acquainted with the tempers and
dispositions of their respective pupils
they could best judge what matches were
suitable and
their judgments were generally
acquiesced in but if
for example it should happen that two or
three young women were found to be
equally proper for the young man
the lot was then referred to i objected
if the matches are not made by the
mutual choice of the parties
some of them may chance to be very
unhappy and so they may
answer my informer if you let the
partners choose for themselves
which indeed i could not deny being
returned to philadelphia i found the
association
went on swimmingly the inhabitants that
were not quakers having pretty generally
come
into it formed themselves into companies
and chose their captains lieutenants and
ensigns
according to the new law dr b visited me
and gave me an account of the pains he
had taken
to spread a general good liking to the
law and described
much of those endeavors i had had the
vanity to ascribe all
to my dialogue however not knowing
but what he might be in the right i let
him enjoy his opinion
which i take to be generally the best
way in such cases
the officers meeting chose me to be
colonel of the regiment
which i this time accepted i forgot how
many companies we had but we paraded
around
1200 well-looking men with a company of
artillery who had been furnished with
six brass field pieces
which they had become so expert in the
use of as to fire twelve times in a
minute
the first time i reviewed my regiment
they accompanied me
to my house and would salute me with
some rounds fired before my door
which shook down and broke several
glasses of my electrical apparatus
and my new honor proved not much less
brittle
for all our commissions were soon after
broken by a repeal of the law in
england during the short time of my
kernel ship
being about to set on a journey to
virginia the officers of my regiment
took it to their heads
that it would be proper for them to
escort me out of town
as far as the lower ferry just as i was
getting on horseback they came to my
door between
30 and 40 mounted and all in their
uniforms
i had not been previously acquainted
with the project
or i should have prevented it being
naturally averse to the assuming of
state on any occasion and i was a good
deal chagrined at their appearance
as i could not avoid their accompanying
me what made it worse was
that as soon as we began to move they
drew their swords and rode with them
naked all the way
somebody wrote an account of this to the
proprietor
and it gave him great offense no such
honor had been paid him
within the province nor to any of his
governors
and he said it was only proper to
princes of the blood royal
which may it be true for ought i know
who was and still am ignorant of the
etiquette of such cases
this silly affair however increased
their anchor against me
which was before not a little on account
of my conduct in the assembly respecting
the exemption of his estates
from taxation which i had always opposed
very warmly and not without severe
reflection on his meanness
and injustice of contending for it he
accused me to the ministry as being
the great obstacles to the king's
service preventing
by my influence in the house the proper
form of the bills
for raising money and he insisted this
parade with my officers
as a proof of my having an intention to
take the government of the province
out of his hands by force he also
applied to sir edward
faulconer the postmaster general to
deprive me of my office
but it had no other effect than to
procure from
sir everett's a general admonition
notwithstanding the continual wrangle
between the governor and the house
in which i as a member had so large a
share
there still subsisted a civil
intercourse between the gentleman and
myself
and we never had any personal difference
i have sometimes since
thought that is little or no resentment
against me
for the answers it was known i drew up
to his messages
might be the effect of professional
habit
and that being bred a lawyer he might
consider us both
as merely advocates for contending
clients in a suit
he for the proprietaries and i for the
assembly
he would therefore sometimes call in a
friendly way
to advise with me on difficult points
and sometimes though not often
take my advice we acted in concert to
supply braddock's army with provisions
and when the shocking news arrived of
his defeat the governor sent
in haste for me to consult with him on
measures for preventing
the destruction of the back counties i
forget now the advice
i gave but i think it was that dunbar
should be written to
and prevailed with if possible to post
his troops on the frontier
for their protection till by
reinforcements from the colonies
he might be able to proceed on the
expedition
and after my return from the frontier he
would have had me undertake the conduct
of such an expedition with provincial
troops
for the reduction of fortune dunbar
and his men being otherwise employed and
he proposed to commission me as general
i had not so good an opinion of my
military abilities as he professed to
have
and i believe his professions must have
exceeded his real sentiments
but probably he might think that my
popularity would facilitate the raising
of the men
and my influence in the assembly the
grant of money to pay for them
and that perhaps without taxing the
proprietary estates
finding me not as forward to engage as
he expected
the project was dropped and he soon
after
left the government being superseded by
captain denny
end of chapter 17.
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 18.
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank
woodworth pine chapter 18
scientific experiments before i proceed
in relating the part i had in public
affairs
under the new governor's administration
it may not be a miss here to give some
account
of the rise and progress of my
philosophical reputation
in 1746 being at boston i met there with
the dr spence
who was lately arrived from scotland and
showed me some electric
experiments they were imperfectly
performed
as he was not very expert but being on a
subject quite new to me
they equally surprised and pleased me
soon after my return to philadelphia
our library company received from mr p
collinson fellow of the royal society of
london
a present of a glass tube with some
account of the use of it
in making such experiments i eagerly
seized the opportunity
of repeating what i had seen at boston
and by such
practice acquired great readiness in
performing those
also which we had an account of from
england adding a number of new ones
i say much practice for my house was
continually full
for some time with people who came to
see these new wonders
begin footnote the royal society of
london for improving natural knowledge
was founded in 1660 and holds the
foremost place among english societies
for the advancement of science and
footnote to divide a little of this
encumbrance among my friends
i caused a number of similar tubes to be
blown at our glass house
with which they furnished themselves so
that we had at length
several performers among these the
principal was mr
kennesley an ingenious neighbor who
being out of business
i encouraged to undertake showing the
experiments for money
and drew up for him two lectures in
which the experiments were arranged in
such order
and accompanied with such explanations
in such method
as the foregoing should assist in
comprehending the following
he procured an elegant apparatus for the
purpose
in which all the little machines that i
had roughly made
for myself were nicely formed by
instrument makers
his lectures were well attended and gave
great satisfaction
and after some time he went through the
colonies exhibiting them
in every capital town and picked up some
money
in the west indies indeed it was with
difficulty the experiments could be made
from the general moisture of the air
obliged as we were to mr collinson for
his present of the tube etc
i thought it right he should be informed
of our success in using it
and wrote him several letters containing
accounts of our experiments
he got them read at the royal society
where they were not at first
thought worth so much notice as to be
printed in their transactions
one paper which i wrote for mr kennesley
on the sameness of lightning with
electricity
i sent to dr mitchell an acquaintance of
mine
and one of the members also of that
society who wrote me word
that it had been read but was laughed at
by the connoisseurs
the papers however being shown to dr
father gill
he thought them of too much value to be
stifled and advised the printing of them
mr collinson then gave them to cave
for publication in his gentleman's
magazine but he chose to print them
separately in a pamphlet
and dr father gill wrote the preface
cave it seems
judged rightly for his profit for by the
additions
that arrived afterwards they swelled to
a quattro volume
which has had five editions and cost him
nothing
for copy money it was however some time
before those papers were much taken
notice of in england
a copy of them happening to fall into
the hands of the count
de bufon a philosopher deservedly of
great
reputation in france and indeed all over
europe
he prevailed with mr delabard to
translate them into french
and they were printed at paris the
publication offended the abi nule
preceptor of the natural philosophy to
the royal family
and an able experimenter who had formed
and published a theory of electricity
which then had the general vogue he
could not at first believe that such a
work
came from america and said it must have
been fabricated
by his enemies at paris to decry his
system
afterwards having been assured that
there really existed such a person as
franklin at philadelphia
which he had doubted he wrote and
published a volume of letters
chiefly addressed to me defending his
theory and denying the verity of my
experiments
and of the position deduced from them
i once proposed answering the abbey and
actually began the answer
put on consideration that my writings
contained a description of experiments
which anyone might repeat and verify and
if not
to be verified could not be defeated or
of
observations offered as conjectures and
not delivered dogmatically
therefore not laying me under any
obligation to defend them
and reflecting that a dispute between
two persons writing in different
languages
might be lengthened greatly by
mistranslations
and sense misconceptions of one
another's meaning
much of one of the abbey's letters being
founded on an error
in the translation i concluded to let my
papers
shift for themselves believing it was
better to
spend what time i could spare from
public business
in making new experiments than in
disputing about those already made
i therefore never answered ms schernle
and
the event gave me no cause to repeat my
silence
for my friend ms chur leroy of the royal
academy of sciences
took up my cause and refuted him my book
was translated into italian german and
latin
languages and the doctrine it contained
was by degrees
universally adopted by the philosophers
of europe
in preference to that of the abbey so
that he lived to see
himself the last of his sect except
mishra b
of paris his immediate disciple
what gave my book the more sudden and
general celebrity
was the success of one of its proposed
experiments
made by mishor delebard and delor at
marley for drawing lightning from the
clouds
this engaged the public attention
everywhere
missouri de lore who had an apparatus
for experimental philosophy
and lectured at the branch of science
undertook to repeat what he called the
philadelphia experiments and after they
were performed before the king
and court all the curious of paris
flocked to see them
i will not swell this narrative with an
account
of that capital experiment nor of the
infinite pleasure i received in the
process
of a similar one i made soon after with
a kite at philadelphia
as both are to be found in the histories
of electricity
dr wright an english physician when at
paris
wrote to a friend who was of the royal
society
an account of the high esteem my
experiments were in
among the learned abroad and of their
wonder
that my writings had been so little
noticed in england
the society on this resumed the
consideration of the letters that had
been read to them and the celebrated dr
watson drew up a summary account of them
and of all i had afterwards sent to
england on the subject
which he accompanied with some praise of
the writer
this summary was then printed in the
transactions
and some members of the society in
london particularly the very ingenious
mr canton
having verified the experiment of
producing lightning from the clouds by a
pointed rod
had acquainted them with the success
they soon made me
more than amends for the slight with
which they had before treated me
without my having made any application
for that honor
they chose me a member and voted that i
should be excused
the customary payments which would have
amounted to 25 guineas
and ever since have given me their
transactions
gratis they also presented me with the
gold medal
of sir godfrey copely for the year 1753
the delivery of which was accompanied by
a very handsome speech
of the president lord mackelfield where
i was
highly honored begin footnote
sir godfrey copely an english baronet
died in 1709
donator of a fund of 100 pounds
in trust for the royal society of london
for improving natural knowledge
and footnote end of chapter 18
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
chapter 19
this is a librivox recording all
librivox recordings are in the public
domain
for more information or to volunteer
please visit librivox.org
the autobiography of benjamin franklin
edited by frank
woodward payne chapter 19
an agent of pennsylvania in london our
new governor
captain denny brought over for me the
before-mentioned medal from the royal
society which he presented to me at an
entertainment given by the city
he accompanied it with very polite
expressions of his esteem for me
having as he had been long acquainted
with my character
after dinner when the company as was
customary at that time
were engaged in drinking he took me
aside into another room and acquainted
me
that he had been advised by his friends
in england to cultivate a friendship
with me
as one who was capable of giving him the
best advice
and of contributing most effectually to
the making of his administration easy
that he therefore desired of all things
to have a good understanding with me
and he begged me to be assured of his
readiness
on all occasions to render me every
service that might be in his power
he said much to me also of the
proprietor's good disposition towards
the province and of the advantage it
might be to us
all and to me in particular if the
opposition that had been so long
continued
to his measures was dropped and harmony
restored between him and the people
in affecting which it was thought no one
could be more serviceable than myself
and i might depend on adequate
acknowledgements and recompenses
etc etc the drinkers finding we did not
return immediately to the table
sent us a decanter of madera which the
governor made liberal use of
and in proportion became more profuse of
his solicitations
and promises my answers were to this
purpose
that my circumstances thanks to god were
such as to make proprietary favors
unnecessary to me
and that being a member of the assembly
i could not possibly accept of any
that however i had no personal enmity
to the proprietary and that whatever the
public measures he proposed
should appear to be for the good of the
people no one should espouse and forward
them more zealously than myself
my past opposition having been founded
on this
that the measures which had been urged
were evidently
intended to serve the proprietary
interest
with great prejudice to that of the
people which i was much obliged to him
the governor for his profession of
regard to me
that he might rely on everything in my
power
to make his administration as easy as
possible
hoping at the same time that he had not
brought with him
the same unfortunate instructions his
predecessor had been hampered with
on this he did not then explain himself
but when he afterward came to do
business with the assembly
they appeared again the disputes were
renewed
and i was as active as ever in the
opposition
being the penman first of the request
to have a communication of the
instructions and
then of the remarks upon them which may
be found in the votes of the time
and in the historical review i afterward
published
but between us personally no enmity
arose
we were often together he was a man of
letters
had seen much of the world and was very
entertaining and pleasing in
conversation
he gave me the first information that my
old friend
jason randolph was still alive that he
was esteemed one of the best political
writers in england
and been employed in the dispute between
prince frederick and the king
and had obtained a pension of 300 a year
that his reputation was indeed
small as a poet pope having damned his
poetry
in the duncanaid but his prose was
thought as good as
any man's begin footnote quarrel between
george ii and his son frederick
prince of wales who died before his
father
a satirical poem by alexander pope
directed against various contemporary
writers
and a footnote the assembly finally
finding
the proprietary obstinately persistent
in menacing
their deputies and with instructions
inconsistent not only with
the privileges of the people but with
the service of the crown
resolve to petition the king against
them and appointed me their agent to go
over to england
to present and support the petition the
house had set up a bill
to the governor granting a sum of sixty
thousand pounds
for the king's use ten thousand pounds
of which was
subject to the orders of the then
general
lord lauden which the governor
absolutely refused to pass
in compliance with his instructions i
agreed with captain morris
of the packet at new york for my passage
and my stores were put on board when
lord loden arrived at philadelphia
expressly as he told me to endeavor an
accommodation between the governor and
the assembly
that his majesty's service might not be
obstructed
by their dissensions accordingly he
desired the governor and myself to meet
him
that he might hear what was to be said
on both sides
we met and discussed the business in
behalf of the assembly
i urged all various arguments that may
be found in the public papers of that
time
which were of my writing and were
printed with the minutes of the assembly
and the governor pleaded his
instructions the bond
he had given to observe them and his
ruin
if he disobeyed yet seemed not unwilling
to hazard himself
if lord lauden would advise it this his
lordship did not choose to do
though i once thought i had nearly
prevailed with him to do it
but finally he rather chose to urge the
compliance of the assembly
and he entreated me to use my endeavors
with them for that purpose
declaring that he would spare none of
the king's troops
for the defense of our frontiers and
that if we did not continue to provide
for
the defense ourselves they must remain
exposed to the enemy
i acquainted the house with what had
been passed
and presenting them with a set of
resolutions i had drawn up
declaring our rights and that we did not
relinquish our claim to those rights
but only suspended the exercise of them
on this occasion
through force against which we protested
they at length agreed to drop that
bill and frame another comfortable to
the proprietary instruction